Bright Light of the Sun
A Simple Fire Offering Based on a Single Substance
by Tamdrin Gönpo

Namo guru deva ḍākinī
To purify negativities and obscurations with a simple fire pūja based on a single substance,
light a fire in front of you, and have a store of the substance—black sesame seeds.
dakshyen mikyul tamché kyi
All negativity, obscurations, habitual tendencies and the results of karma
dikdrib bakchak nammin kün
Of the beings on whom I focus in this practice—myself and others—
dü né til la timpar gyur
Are gathered and absorbed into the sesame seeds.
Say the mantra ‘Oṃ akaro... etc.’ three times:
om akaro mukham sarva dharmanam adyanut-pannat-vat om ah hum phat svaha
rang dün mé kyil dorsem kar
The maṇḍala of fire in front of me becomes white Vajrasattva,
shyal chik chak nyi dordril nam
With one face and two hands holding vajra and bell,
gyenden kyilmo trung gi shyuk
He wears his ornaments and sits cross-legged –
shyal du dikdrib pulwé sek
Burn away the negativities and obscurations offered into your mouth!
om benza sato hung | sarwa papam dahana shanting kuru soha
oṃ vajra satva hūṃ | sarva pāpaṃ dahana śāntim kuru svāhā
Offer the substance while repeating this mantra, a hundred times or more—as much as you can
manage.
Make offerings with argham etc.
argham padam pupé dhupé aloké gendhé nevidé shapta
arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda
Offer praise:
rik dü ngadak heruka
Sovereign Heruka who embodies all families,
rab kar dorjé drilbu dzin
Utterly white holder of vajra and bell
ledrib jongwé tutob chen
Who has the power to purify karma and obscurations,
dorjé sempar chaktsal tö
Vajrasattva—I offer prostration and praises to you!
dakshyen semchen tamché kyi
My own and others'—every beings’
dakdzin chingwé bakchak dang
Habitual tendencies based on binding ourselves with grasping at the self,
nammin duk ngé drebu kün
And the results of our karma which are the fruits of the five poisons—
malü yeshe mé sek né
Burn them all away in the wisdom fire!
jang shying dakpar dzé du sol
Cleanse and purify them!
dün gyi dorsem rang la tim
Vajrasattva in front dissolves into me.
kadak chöying dön tok né
May we realize the primordially pure dharmadhātu
nyurdu sangye sar khö shok
And swiftly reach Buddhahood!

This practice was put together at the request of a few devoted students by the vidyādhara Hayagrīvanātha.
Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Gyurme Avertin, 2019.